Add docs for pg_stat_statements_reset with collector hang (#158)
pganalyze/pganalyze-docs: install/troubleshooting/collector_hang.mdx

---
title: Collector hangs
backlink_href: /docs/install/troubleshooting
backlink_title: 'Installation Troubleshooting'
---

If you find the collector hanging either periodically or constantly, or even within the test run,
the most likely cause is `pg_stat_statements` statistic data being big and taking long time to query the statistic from it.
This especially happens when there are many queries with long query texts.

You can check out below points using the following query to identify if ps_stat_statements statistic data is big or not.

* How many queries does `pg_stat_statements` statistic data currently have
* The maximum number of queries `pg_stat_statements` keeps track of (default: 5000)
* Total size of tracked queries

```sql
SELECT
  count(*),
  current_setting('pg_stat_statements.max'),
  pg_size_pretty(sum(length(query)))
FROM pg_stat_statements;
```

> To mitigate the issue, you can run `SELECT pg_stat_statements_reset()` to reset the statistics data.

Author: ```suggestion
To mitigate the issue, you can run `SELECT pg_stat_statements_reset()` to reset the statistics data.
This will not affect the statistics data tracked within pganalyze, but if you are using other tools that rely on `pg_stat_statements` data, you should review how they will be affected.
```

---
title: Collector hangs
backlink_href: /docs/install/troubleshooting
backlink_title: 'Installation Troubleshooting'
---

If you find the collector hanging either periodically or constantly, or even within the test run,
the most likely cause is `pg_stat_statements` statistic data being big and taking long time to query the statistic from it.
This especially happens when there are many queries with long query texts.

You can check out below points using the following query to identify if ps_stat_statements statistic data is big or not.

* How many queries does `pg_stat_statements` statistic data currently have
* The maximum number of queries `pg_stat_statements` keeps track of (default: 5000)
* Total size of tracked queries

```sql
SELECT
  count(*),
  current_setting('pg_stat_statements.max'),
  pg_size_pretty(sum(length(query)))
FROM pg_stat_statements;
```

> To mitigate the issue, you can run `SELECT pg_stat_statements_reset()` to reset the statistic data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To mitigate the issue, you can run `SELECT pg_stat_statements_reset()` to reset the statistics data.
```

I think it would also be good to mention something like "This will not affect the statistics data tracked within pganalyze, but if you are using other tools that rely on `pg_stat_statements` data, you should review how they will be affected."

> When the collector test run (`pganalyze-collector --test --verbose`) is already hanging, it's good to try this out and see the test will stop hanging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the collector test run (`pganalyze-collector --test --verbose`) is already hanging, it's good to try this out and see if it resolves the problem.
```

> If the collector still hangs after this, please [contact us](/contact) so that we can help debugging further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the collector still hangs after this, please [contact us](/contact) so that we can help debug further.
```

Once you confirm that `pg_stat_statements_reset()` is a valid mitigation, you can enable a recurring reset executed by pganalyze.

## Setting up recurring `pg_stat_statements_reset()`

> First, you need to create the following helper method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, identify the primary monitored database. This is the value of the `db_name` collector setting, or the first database in the list, if there are several. Then, you need to create the following helper method:
```

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION pganalyze.reset_stat_statements() RETURNS SETOF void AS
$$
  /* pganalyze-collector */ SELECT * FROM public.pg_stat_statements_reset();
$$ LANGUAGE sql VOLATILE SECURITY DEFINER;
```

Second, go to the Server Settings panel in Settings page and tune "Collector: Query Statistics Reset Frequency":

![Server Settings](/server_settings.png)

> Please feel free to [reach out to us](/contact) for which frequency to pick.
> You could always start from 24 hours to see if that helps the situation.

Reviewer: I think if people do reach out, we'll probably just tell them to start at 24h and make it more frequent if necessary, so might as well start with that here:
```suggestion
Start with a reset frequency of 24 hours to see if that helps the situation. If this helps for a while but the problem eventually happens again, try increasing the frequency. Please feel free to [reach out to us](/contact) to tune it further.
```
